---
layout: post
title: Week of March 9th
---

Math and Stat Tenure Track Interview Talks this week:

- Tuesday  March 10th, 4-5pm, Adel 164: Dr. Jarrett Barber, Arizona State University.[[Link to Itinerary](http://naumathstat.github.io/seminars/colloquium_files/Barber-ItineraryS15.pdf)].

- Thursday March 12th, 4-5pm, Adel 164: Dr. Yuying Xie, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
[[Link to Itinerary](http://naumathstat.github.io/seminars/colloquium_files/Xie-ItineraryS15 (1).pdf)].

## Abstracts ##

**Speaker:** Dr. Jarrett Barber (Arizona State University)

**Title:** Emulating an individual based model of tree growth

**Abstract:** We wish to use large data sets to inform an individual based model for learning about tree growth and forest dynamics
over regional scales and more broadly.  The computational complexity of our model and our
regional scope make traditional approaches to Bayesian estimation and forecasting, e.g., MCMC, practically infeasible.  
To address the computational issue, we borrow perspective from the complex computer experiments literature to
view our model as a complex simulator for which the goal is to create a computationally more tractable emulator model.  
From this perspective our situation is relatively unique because we can run our simulator a relatively large number of times,
and we have a large number of actual observations, two situations that are relatively rare in this context.  
Consequently, with many data and simulator runs,
the familiar use of Gaussian processes as the basis of emulation becomes problematic.  
We will review the
emulator literature and explore initial efforts to develop an emulator to calibrate our simulator and to predict tree growth.

**Keywords:** Bayesian; emulator; meta model; surrogate model; tree growth; tree traits


**Speaker:** Dr. Yuying Xie (University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)

**Title:** Joint Estimation of Dependent Gaussian Graphical Models with Applications to Mouse Genetics

**Abstract:**  The advance of technology in recent years has led to an explosion of data in many fields, including biological science, social networks and financial engineering. The resulting data sets are often multivariate in nature, with more variables than observed units, and with relationships between variables that are a priori unknown and often themselves the subject of inference. As such they present a challenge to traditional statistical analyses and demand new methodology. To explore and understand how variables in such data sets are related, especially when normal assumptions apply, an increasingly popular approach is the direct and simultaneous inference of their conditional dependence structure using a Gaussian graphical model (GGM). A large literature has developed on GGMs, but it has mostly focused on where the observed units (and therefore the observed outcomes of the GGM) are independent. In this talk, we consider the setting of dependent data, with multiple GGMs observed in each of multiple subjects. We propose a novel estimator for such models, and show how existing methods that assume independence are not applicable in this setting, and can even be misleading.  To estimate multiple dependent graphs, we decompose the problem into two graphical layers: the systemic layer, which is the network affecting all outcomes and thereby inducing cross-graph dependency, and the category-specific layer, which represents the graph-specific variation. To estimate the two layers jointly, we propose a new graphical Expectation Maximization (EM) technique.  Both theoretical study and application to mouse genetic data will be discussed to demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed graphical EM algorithm and its inferences.

## Other Seminar Announcements ##

- [ACGT](acgtSpring2015) continues Tuesday at 12:45-2:00pm, March 10th, AMB 164.  
- [AMS](amsSpring2015) is cancelled Thursday March 12th.
- [FAMUS](famusSpring2015) is cancelled Friday March 13th.
