---
layout: post
title: Week of April 20th
---

## Honors Week ##

This week we will have our two talks by our honors week speaker, Prof Jon McCammond, on Monday 4-5 and Tuesday 4-5.

**Advanced Talk:** Monday April 20, from 4-5 pm in AMB 164 164<br>
**Title:** The intrinsic geometry of groups

**Abstract:** Geometric group theory was born in the late 1980s as an explosive blend of ideas from the more venerable subjects of combinatorial group theory and Riemannian geometry.  In this talk I will describe the basic ideas and theorems of Gromov that lead to the founding of this new field.  There are essentially no prerequisites for this talk. For example, a slight familiarity with fundamental groups and covering spaces is useful but not absolutely required.
</p>

**Honors Talk:** Tuesday April 21, from 4-5 pm in AMB 164 163<br>
**Title:** Repetition and Insight

**Abstract:** This talk will focus on a connected set of surprises and insights that arise through simple repetition and iteration: punching the [cos] button repeatedly on a calculator, continued fractions -- along with their connections to the golden ratio and the Fibonacci numbers, and continued square roots, with some mentions of Ramanujan, Chebyshev polynomials, and the Mandelbrot set thrown in along the way.

## Other Seminar Announcements ##

Alumni visitor  Joe Maurer will be visiting and giving a talk over his PhD research in Statistics at Oregon State University.  
He is using the Thursday 12:45pm AMS time slot for his talk, but all with an interest in statistics and those who remember Joe are invited to attend.

**Title:**  Can we estimate fatality from carcasses observed only on roads and pads?

**Abstract:** At wind energy farms birds and bats die from colliding with wind turbines. In order to better understand potential population effects to these animals there is a need to estimate the number of fatalies for a given wind project. In estimating bird and bat fatality at wind power facilities, we generally focus on two primary sources of imperfect detection: 1) carcasses are removed before sampling, and 2) carcasses present in the searched area are missed by observers. A third source that is often overlooked is that carcasses land in unsearched areas. We focus on this aspect to evaluate the potential for estimating total site fatality from carcasses observed on roads and pads. We consider three estimators: a ratio estimator (ratio), parametric model estimator (glm), and an empirical method (cake), all of which have been suggested in reports or in the peer-reviewed literature. Comparisons, through the use of simulations, are made considering different (1) per-turbine fatality rates, (2) distance distribution functions, and (3) anisotropic conditions. Preliminary results suggest the cake and glm methods may be preferred when rates are low as the ratio methods is biased and has relatively more variation. However, the ratio estimator may be preferred when rates are high and anisotropy is present but unaccounted for by the other methods.  We discuss potential approaches to account for anisotropy in the three methods.

- [ACGT](acgtSpring2015) continues Tuesday at 12:45-2:00pm, April 21st, AMB 164.  
- [AMS](amsSpring2015) continues Thursday at 12:45-2:00pm, April 23rd, AMB 164.  Alumni visitor Joe Maurer speaks.
- [FAMUS](famusSpring2015) continues Friday at 3-4, April 24th, AMB 164.

The seminar schedules and announcements are available via the departmental seminar website located [here](http://naumathstat.github.io/seminars).
