---
layout: post
title: Week of March 23rd
---

Math and Stat Interview Talks this week:

- Tuesday  March 24th, 4-5pm, Statistics Lecturer Position Interview teaching lesson / presentation, COMPUTER LAB (AMB 222): Ms. Nellie Gopaul.
<br> Ms. Gopaul will discuss topics from introductory statistics (e.g., from STA 270 or 275), followed by a discussion of teaching methods, philosophy, etc.
<br> The speaker has asked that everyone attending the talk bring a coin with them!

- Thursday March 26th, 4-5pm, Statistics Tenure-Track Position Interview talk, Colloquium Room (AMB 164): Mr. Brook Russell, Casper College.
<br> Dr. Russell has a Ph.D. in Statistics Candidate at Colorado State University and will speak about
 "Data Mining for Extreme Behavior with Application to Ground Level Ozone."  For your convenience, the abstract is below.

## Other Seminar Announcements ##

- [ACGT](acgtSpring2015) continues Tuesday at 12:45-2:00pm, March 24th, AMB 164.  
- [AMS](amsSpring2015) continues Thursday March 26th with a LATE START time of 1pm.  John Neuberger will discuss the p-Laplacian.
- [FAMUS](famusSpring2015) continues Friday March 27th.
 

***************************

Dr. Brook Russell, Casper College: Data Mining for Extreme Behavior with Application to Ground Level Ozone

Abstract:  This project aims to increase understanding of the meteorological conditions which lead to extreme ground level ozone conditions. 
Our approach focuses only on the tail behavior by utilizing the framework of regular variation. Our approach has two parts. 
The first is an optimization problem: given a set of meteorological covariates, we aim to find the linear combination of these covariates which has 
the highest degree of tail dependence with ozone. The second is a data mining problem: given a long list of possible meteorological covariates, 
we seek to find the ones which are linked to extreme ozone.

We use a constrained optimization procedure which maximizes a measure of tail dependence and whose constraint enforces a requirement on the 
marginal distribution. Our optimization procedure requires that we consider tail dependence estimators with a smooth threshold, 
rather than the hard threshold typical of extremes. Data mining is performed within the model selection context, and because the model space cannot be 
explored completely, we employ an automated model search procedure. We present a simulation study which shows that the method can detect complicated conditions 
leading to extreme responses. We apply the method to ozone data for Atlanta and Charlotte and find similar meteorological drivers for these two Southeastern US cities. 
We identify several covariates which may help to differentiate the meteorological conditions which lead to extreme ozone levels from 
those which lead to merely high levels.  Our current work includes a spatial extension of our modeling procedure.
