---
layout: post
title: Week of September 4th
---

Jim Swift is giving this week's colloquium talk on Tuesday 9/5 at 4:00-5:00 pm (refreshments at 3:45) and Mike Falk will be talking in the ACGT seminar later that day at 12:45PM. Both events take place in Room 164 of the Adel Mathematics Building. On Thursday, Jeffrey Covington will be giving a talk in the Applied Math Seminar. See below for details.

The seminar schedules and announcements are available via the departmental seminar website located [here](http://naumathstat.github.io/seminars). The website is updated as schedule information becomes available.

## Department of Mathematics and Statistics Colloquium

**Date:** Tuesday, September 5, 4:00-5:00 pm (refreshments at 3:45), AMB 164

**Speaker:** Jim Swift (NAU)

**Title:** Synchrony and Anti-Synchrony in Difference-Coupled Cell Networks

**Abstract:** Consider the coupled van der Pol oscillator system

$$\ddot x_i = (1- x_i^2) \dot x_i - x_i + \sum_{j \in N(i)} 0.5 (x_j - x_i) , \quad i \in \{1, 2, \ldots, n\},$$

where $i$ labels the cells, and $N(i)$ is the set of cells coupled to cell $i$. This is an example of a Difference-Coupled cell network, which is the focus of my recent work with Nandor Sieben and John Neuberger. We concentrate on describing the synchrony ($x_i = x_j$) and anti-synchrony ($x_i = -x_j$) that is forced to occur for all systems of this type.  The general results are illustrated by cool animations of numerical solutions of systems of coupled van der Pol oscillators.

## ACGT Seminar

**Date:** Tuesday, September 5, 12:45-2:00 pm, AMB 164

**Speaker:** Michael Falk (NAU)

**Title:** Discriminantal arrangements and permutations.

**Abstract:** We will define discriminantal arrangements and explain the connection with higher Bruhat orders, consider some examples, and attempt to sort out the relationship between certain discriminantal arrangements and factorizations of certain elements of the symmetric group. This is the first of two lectures.

## Applied Math Seminar

**Date:** Thursday, September 7, 12:45–2:00 pm, AMB 164

**Speaker:** Jeffrey Covington (NAU grad student)

**Title and Abstract:** TBA

## FAMUS

The [Friday Afternoon Undergraduate Mathematics Seminar](famusFall2017) (FAMUS) takes place on Friday, September 8, 3:00–4:00 pm, AMB 164. Details will follow in a separate announcement.
