---
layout: post
title: Week of September 18th
---

This week's department colloquium takes place on Wednesday, September 20 at 4:00-5:30pm in Room 164.  James Tanton (Mathematical Association of America) will be in Flagstaff doing a workshop for FUSD, and will give us a version of his presentation, on Wednesday afternoon. His talk is titled "Exploding Dots: Joyous, Uplifting, Astounding Mathematics for the World" and here is the abstract:

>Here is a story that isn't true. When I was a young child I invented a machine (not true) that was nothing more than a series of boxes that could hold dots. And these dots would, upon certain actions, explode. And with this machine (in this non-true story) I realized that I could explain true things! I could explain all the mathematics of arithmetic I learnt in grade school (true), all the of the polynomial algebra I was to learn in high-school (true), elements of calculus and number theory I was to learn in university (true), and I could explore unanswered research questions mathematicians are studying today (also true)! "

**Note:** There will be no colloquium on Tuesday.

Mike Falk will be giving his third talk in a series in the ACGT seminar on Tuesday at 12:45-2:00pm in Room 164. On Thursday, 9/21, Jeffrey Covington will continue speaking in the Applied Math Seminar.  As usual, the Friday Afternoon Undergraduate Mathematics Seminar (FAMUS) takes place on Friday at 3:00-4:00pm in Room 164. Details about this week's FAMUS to follow in a separate email. Click on the links in the sidebar to see schedules and more information.
