---
layout: post
title: Week of February 8th
---

Dr. Dana Ernst will present at this week's colloquium, Tuesday February 9th, 4:00pm,
Room #164, Adel Math Building #26.
Dana's talk is entitled "Several representations of my favorite open problem."
See the colloquium schedule on this website for an abstract.

Dr. Phillip Hotchkiss from Westfield State College will present a second colloquium this week, Thursday February 11th, 4:00pm,
Room #164, Adel Math Building #26.  He is visiting Jeff Hovermill to collaborate on a grant, and will
speak about "Inquiry-Based Learning: Pedagogy, Research and Practice."*  
* This title is a change from a previously posted title. 
See the colloquium schedule on this website for the correspondingly updated abstract.

If someone should be added to or removed from the email list, 
let the colloquium chair John.Neuberger@NAU.Edu know.

As a reminder, the colloquium and all seminars are normally held in #164.

## Other Seminar Announcements ##

- [ACGT](acgtSpring2016) The seminar series meets at the usual time, 12:45-2:00 Tuesdays, #164.
     Mike Falk continues speaking.
- [AMS](amsSpring2016) The seminar series meets at the usual time, 12:45-2:00 Tuesdays, #164.
        Wilson Lough will give the second of two talks related to mathematical physics.
        The seminar website has a tentative schedule of the next several AMS speakers.
- [FAMUS](famusSpring2016) meets on Fridays, 3-4, AMB #164.  Dr. Hotchkiss will be the speaker.

The seminar schedules and announcements are available via the departmental seminar website located [here](http://naumathstat.github.io/seminars).
The website is updated as  schedule information becomes available.


